https://stats.stackexchange.com/questions/12421/generative-vs-discriminative?utm_medium=organic&utm_source=google_rich_qa&utm_campaign=google_rich_qa

The fundamental difference between discriminative models and generative models is:

Discriminative models learn the (hard or soft) boundary between classes
Generative models model the distribution of individual classes
To answer your direct questions:

SVMs and decision trees are discriminative because they learn explicit boundaries between classes. 
SVM is a maximal margin classifier, meaning that it learns a decision boundary that maximizes the 
distance between samples of the two classes, given a kernel. The distance between a sample and the 
learned decision boundary can be used to make the SVM a "soft" classifier. DTs learn the decision 
boundary by recursively partitioning the space in a manner that maximizes the information gain (or another criterion).

It is possible to make a generative form of logistic regression in this manner. Note that you are not 
using the full generative model to make classification decisions, though.

There are a number of advantages generative models may offer, depending on the application. Say you are 
dealing with non-stationary distributions, where the online test data may be generated by different underlying 
distributions than the training data. It is typically more straightforward to detect distribution changes 
and update a generative model accordingly than do this for a decision boundary in an SVM, especially if the 
online updates need to be unsupervised. Discriminative models also do not generally function for outlier 
detection, though generative models generally do. What's best for a specific application should, of course, 
be evaluated based on the application.

(This quote is convoluted, but this is what I think it's trying to say) Generative models are typically specified 
as probabilistic graphical models, which offer rich representations of the independence relations in the dataset. 
Discriminative models do not offer such clear representations of relations between features and classes in the 
dataset. Instead of using resources to fully model each class, they focus on richly modeling the boundary between 
classes. Given the same amount of capacity (say, bits in a computer program executing the model), a discriminative 
model thus may yield more complex representations of this boundary than a generative model.
